Creating Academic-Industry Collaboration chapter and subchapters (#3095)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: book/website/collaboration/academic-industry/academic-industry-establish.md

(cl-academic-industry-establish)=
## Establishing an Academic-Industry Collaboration

(cl-academic-industry-establish-initial)=

### Initial Interactions

There is no standard route to setting up an academic-industry collaboration. 
These collaborations may spring from small organic interactions such as researchers connecting at a conference, or may be driven more 'formally' by a partnerships team at either organisation. 

Before jumping into a formal partnership, we recommend to first collaborate on a smaller project or task of shared interest. 
This allows both organisations to see how the other works in practice (rather than any pre-concieved ideas), how you collaborate together and overall 'test the waters'. 

In the case of the Turing-Roche partnership, the two organisations initially collaborated through a weeklong Turing Data Study Group {cite}`datastudygrouproche2020`. 

> At these collaborative hackathons a challenger owner, in this case Roche, provide a dataset and a real-world problem to be solved by a team of researchers from the Turing network. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At these collaborative hackathons, a challenger owner, in this case Roche, provides a dataset and a real-world problem to be solved by a team of researchers from the Turing network. 
```

Alongside this, negotiating formal documents will require much discussion, such as legal contracts that consider intellectual property and data sharing. 
Its important to note here that although academics may have completed similar agreements for their research in the past, there will likely be additional barriers when brokering this with industry. 
For more detail on developing a contract, governance and more, we recommend this comprehensive Academia-Industry Collaboration Best Practices Guide {cite}`academiaindustryguide` from the Coordinated Research Infrastructures Building Enduring Life-science Services [(CORBEL) Project](https://www.corbel-project.eu/home.html). 

In the case of the Turing-Roche partnership, both the Turing Institute and Roche had a mutual commitment to open science principles which helped shape negotiations and set relatively flexible and collaborative terms around intellectual property. 
The basis of the partnership was also to develop methodologies, rather than developing products or a collaboration on drug discovery, which would likely complicate contracting and therefore may be something you want to consider.

> Planning a scientific strategy is also a necessity, allowing both sides to identify what is in scope, generating a research agenda and therefore also who should be involved. T

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Planning a scientific strategy is also a necessity, allowing both sides to identify what is in scope, generating a research agenda and therefore also who should be involved.
```

> Planning a scientific strategy is also a necessity, allowing both sides to identify what is in scope, generating a research agenda and therefore also who should be involved. T

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Planning a scientific strategy is also a necessity, allowing both sides to identify what is in scope, generating a research agenda and therefore also who should be involved.
```

* **Core Meetings**: Occur monthly and brings together senior partnership members to discuss strategic activities and get high level updates
* **Operational Meetings**: Occur fortnightly and bring together deputy scientific leads and operational team to ensure delivery of partnership activities

They have since developed other meetings as needed, such as ad hoc strategy meetings to brainstorm new activities, ensuring they are on track for the partnership aims and to consider future opportunities and the legacy of the partnership; lab meetings to bring together the team and all researchers working on the scientific aims of the partnership and facilitate connections; and catch-ups between postdoctoral researchers for sharing preliminary work.

#### Core Team Membership

There are a number of considerations for establishing your core team for the collaboration:
* How many people do you want from each organisation? Do you want equal numbers from each side?
* Do you want to specify the specific amount of time each person will be contracted to work on the collaboration? It may be useful to consider a secondment model. 

> * How will you split responsibilities e.g operational v scientific? Who has overall decision making power? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How will you split different responsibilities, such as operational vs. scientific decisions? Who has overall decision making power? 
```

Reviewer: I think the e.g. might trigger the Latin phrases checker
